---
layout: default
title: Dagger KSP
---

**Warning:** Dagger's KSP support is currently in alpha.
{: .c-callouts__warning }

## Requirements

  * Dagger `2.48` (or above)
  * Kotlin `1.9.0` (or above)
  * KSP `1.9.0-1.0.12` (or above)

## Setup

**Note:** This guide focuses on Gradle. If you are using a different build
system, please consult the documentation for that build system to enable KSP.
{: .c-callouts__note }

A general guide for migrating Gradle processors from KAPT to KSP can be found at
[https://developer.android.com/build/migrate-to-ksp](https://developer.android.com/build/migrate-to-ksp).

The main steps are:

  1. Apply the Kotlin JVM plugin and KSP plugin.
  2. Change the compiler dependency configurations from `kapt` to `ksp`.

```kotlin
// STEP 1: Apply the Kotlin JVM and KSP plugin
plugins {
  id "org.jetbrains.kotlin.jvm" version "1.9.0"
  id "com.google.devtools.ksp" version "1.9.0-1.0.12"
}

// STEP 2: Change compiler dependencies from 'kapt' to 'ksp' configuration.
dependencies {
  ksp "com.google.dagger:dagger-compiler:2.48" // Dagger compiler
  ksp "com.google.dagger:hilt-compiler:2.48"   // Hilt compiler
}
```

## New Dagger SPI plugin (with KSP support)

Dagger's KSP processor requires all registered
[Dagger SPI plugins](https://dagger.dev/dev-guide/spi) to be converted to the
[new Dagger SPI plugin API](https://dagger.dev/api/latest/dagger/spi/model/package-summary.html).
The new API provides wrappers around the Javac and KSP model types that allows
users to write plugins that support both Javac and KSP. The full list of
wrappers are shown below.

Dagger Wrapper          | Javac             | KSP
----------------------- | ----------------- | ------------
DaggerAnnotation        | AnnotationMirror  | KSAnnotation
DaggerType              | TypeMirror        | KSType
DaggerElement           | Element           | KSDeclaration
DaggerTypeElement       | TypeElement       | KSClassDeclaration
DaggerExecutableElement | ExecutableElement | KSFunctionDeclaration

Users can get access to the underlying Javac or KSP type of a wrapper by calling
its `#javac()` or `#ksp()` methods, respectively. In addition, all wrappers have
a `#backend()` method that can be used to switch logic based on the current
backend. For example:

```java
/** Returns the qualified name of the given {@link DaggerTypeElement}. */
String getQualifiedName(DaggerTypeElement typeElement) {
  switch (typeElement.backend()) {
    case JAVAC: return typeElement.javac().getQualifiedName();
    case KSP: return typeElement.ksp().getQualifiedName().asString();
    default: throw AssertionError("Unexpected backend: " + typeElement.backend());
  }
}
```

Note that calling `#javac()` when processing with KSP (or calling `#ksp()` when
processing with Javac) will throw an exception.

## Interaction with Javac/KAPT processors

KSP processors are not able to resolve types generated by other Javac/KAPT
processors. Thus, if your project contains other processors that generate
classes that need to interact with Dagger or Hilt, then those processors also
need to be migrated to KSP.

For example, if you're using the `androidx.hilt:hilt-compiler`, it should also
be migrated to use the `ksp` configuration. KSP support for
`androidx.hilt:hilt-compiler` is available in version
[1.1.x](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/hilt#1.1.0-alpha01).

Note that even if another processor is not directly related to Dagger/Hilt, it
will still need to be migrated to KSP if its generated type needs to be
inspected by the Dagger/Hilt processor. For example, consider the usage of an
[AutoFactory](https://github.com/google/auto/tree/main/factory) generated class
within an `@Inject`-annotated constructor:

```kotlin
@AutoFactory
class SomeClass(@Provided val dep: Dep, arg: String)

class Foo @Inject constructor(val factory: SomeClassFactory)
```

If `com.google.auto.factory:auto-factory:1.0.1` is in the `kapt` configuration,
then the generated class `SomeClassFactory` will not be visible to the Dagger
processor while it inspects the parameters of the `@Inject` constructor. For
such cases, an error similar to the following will be raised:

```
... was unable to process ‘Foo’ because 'SomeClassFactory' could not be resolved.
```

Even though usages of `@AutoFactory` can be replaced with Dagger’s
`@AssistedInject` APIs, there might be other processors that might prevent your
project from migrating to KSP’s version of Dagger.

